# TextBookPdfClustering
[📄 View PDF](https://github.com/harika446-eng/TextBookPdfClustering/blob/main/Cluster%20Champs%20ppt.pdf)
<p>The objective of the project is to develop a website that can automatically organize and categorize textbooks based on their content, topics, or subject areas.</p>

Allows users to navigate through the collection of textbooks and find material related to specific subject more effectively, saving time and effort in finding specific information.

## Tools: 
### libraries : 
<p>● pandas, numpy, matplotlib : basic data transformation and visualization </p>
<p>● PyPDF2 : text extraction </p>
<p>● dataprep : text cleaning</p>
<p>● nltk : text processing and analysis</p>
<p>● gensim : model development</p>



### framework : 
Flask - flexible way to develop 
### webpage frontend : 
<p>HTML, CSS</p>

## Data Collection : 
Around 103 PDF files are collected from GitHub and other websites
## Data Preprocessing : --
The first 25 pages text is extracted from PDFs using PyPDF2 libraryBasic data cleaning like removing digits, removing urls, lowercase the text is done using dataprep library Stop-words are removed and a corpus is build which is later converted into “bag of words (BOW)
## Model Development : --
Topic modelling approach is used to group textbooks with similar topics together. 
The Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is trained on the corpus to extract topics of the documents LDA assumes that each document is generated by a statistical generative process. That is, each document is a mix of topics, and each topic is a mix of words.
## Webpage Development :--
Flask is a lightweight web framework for building web applications in Python. It provides a simple and flexible way to develop web-based projects, from small applications to complex websites. HTML is used to provide the structure of the page and CSS is used for the visual layout.
The webpage allows users to upload a PDF file and the page returns which cluster/topic the book belongs to. The webpage also has keyword search which enables users to pick a keyword and get the frequency of the keyword in the documents.

